Usually there are two passwords on a cli, one for console one for telnet. For console, you can enable password/secret in the line console 0 config. For the telnet password, you can enable password in the line vty 0 15 config

There is also an enable password to protect priv mode 

enable password in config
enable password in vty
enable password in line con 0

typing "login" after the password tells the IOS to enable the use of a simple shared password 

Configuring switches to use local username login authentication
	1. use the "username 'name' secret 'password'" global config command to add one or more usernames/password pairs on the local switch.
	2. Configure the console to use locally configured pairs.
	A) Use the line con 0 command to enter console config mode
	B) Use the login local subcommand to enable console to prompt both username and pass
	C) (optional) Use the no password subcommand to remove any existing simple shared passwords 

	3. Configure telnet to use locally configured pairs
	A) Use the line vty 0 15 command to enter vty config mode for all 16 vty lines
	B) Use the "login local" command to enable the switch to prompt for both username and password for all inbound telnet users.
	C) (optional) Use the no password subcommand to remove any existing simple shared passwords 

AAA Server = Authentication, authorization, and accounting

HOW TO SET UP SSH:

hostname sw1
ip domain-name example.com
crypto key generate rsa

How many bits in the modulus: (Enter in ) 1024
ip ssh version 2
line vty 0 15
login local
exit

username wendell password odom
username chris password youdaman
exit

To control what protocols a switch supports on its vty lines, use the transport input commands in vty mode

transport input all or transport input telnet ssh : Supports both telnet and ssh
transport input none : support neither
transport input telnet : support only telnet
transport input ssh : Support only SSH

To see information about ssh on a network, you can type the command "show ssh" to see ssh configuration

In order to have telnet or ssh, the switch needs an ip address. 
In a cisco switch by default, all ports are assigned to vlan 1.

To send IP packets to hosts in the same subnet, send the packets directly 
To send ip packets to hosts in a different subnet, send them to the local router (Default gateway)

To see configuration on IPv4 on switch, look at CLI commands
To verify ipv4 on a Swithc, look at the "show running-config" command. You can also use the "show interfaces vlan" command which shows information about the specific vlan interface. Lastly, you can use the "show dhcp lease' command to see the temp leased ip address


































