Chap 5:

Lan switch forwards ethernet frames

Switches perform 3 actions: 
1. Deciding when to forward a frame or when to filter (not forward) a frame, based on the destination MAC addresses
2. Preparing to forward frames by learning MAC addresses by examining th source MAC address of each frame received by the switch. 
3. Preparing to forward only one copy of the frame to the destination by creating a (layer 2) loop free environment with other switches by using STP
The first action is the primary job, while steps two and three are overhead actions.

broadcat address is how a MAC address table is built (Forwards broadcast frames to find mac address)

DEFAULT time out of a mac address (300 seconds)

The MAC address table is also called the switching table, or bridging table, or even sometime sthe content addressable memory (CAM) table. 
Unicast frames are frames that have a unicast destination address, with the destination address being known. 
Switches build the address table by listening to incoming frames and examining the SOURCE MAC address in the frame. If it does not contain a SOURCE MAC address, then it will write down the interface it came from. 

The process of flooding occurs when there are no matching entries in the table, the switches foward the frame out to all interfaces (except the incoming interface). 

STP: Spanning tree protocol, prevents against loops. It makes it so frames do not loop permanetly, causing it to make LAN usuable. 
STP is needed because it causes each interface on a switch to settle into either a blocking state or a forwarding state. Blocking means that the interface cannot forward or receive data frames, while forwarding means
that the interface can send and receive data frames. 

To show a Switches MAC address table, use the "show mac address-table" Command 
Use the "Show mac address-table dynamic" command to see all of the dynamically learned MAC addresses only. 
Use the "erase startup-config" EXEC command to erase the startup config file
Use the "Delete vlan.dat" EXEC command to delete the VLAN configuration details
Use the "reload" EXEC command to reload the switch
Configure the "hostname" command to change the hostname
Show the status of interfaces with the "Show interfaces status" command

Counters help list statistics about incoming and outgoing frames on the other interfaces. It lists the number of unicast, multicast, and broadcast frames while listing a total cyte count for those frames.

If you want to look for specific mac addresses, you can just type "show mac address-table dynamic address 0200.1111.1111

you can view a mac address by a specific port, by typing "Show mac address-table dynamic interface fastEthernet 0/1

You can search mac addresses for specific vlans too typing "Show mac address-table dynamic vlan 1"

Inactive timers on switches last 600 seconds. You can see by typing "Show mac address-table aging-time"
To remove dynamic entries from the MAC address table, you can type "clear mac address-table dynamic". (You can do specifics too for vlan, interface, and mac address) 
