A LAN includes all devices in the same broadcast domain

A Broadcast domain includes the set of all LAN connected devices. Any broadcast frames will go to all devices in the domain, receiving the broadcast address.

Using only default settings, a switch considers all interfaces to be in the same broadcast domain. 

The most common reasons for choosing a smaller broadcast domain are:

	1. To reduce CPU overhead on each device, improving host performance, reducing # of devices
	2. reduce security risks
	3. improve security for hosts
	4. Create more flexible designs that group users by departments
	5. To solve problems more quickly 
	6. To reduce the workload for STP 

Vlan Tagging: 
shown in lab

Trunk ports are Tagged ports. (Can send tagged vlan traffic )
Access ports are untagged Ports. (Can send untagged traffic because the hosts are in the same vlan)
802.1Q also defines one special VLAN ID on each trunk as the native VLAN (Defaulting to VLAN 1) 

The native VLAN concept gives switches the capability of at least passing traffic on one VLAN (the native VLAN), which can allow some basic functions like reachability to telnet into a switch. 

Devices in the same vlan need to have the same subnet, devices in different vlans need to have different subnets. 

VTP = Vlan Trunking Protocol
^^ This is a Cisco proprietary tool on Cisco switches that advertises each VLAN configured in one switch so that all the other switches in the campus learn about that VLAN. 

Voice Vlans configuration is shown in CLI commands 

IN SUMMARY For IP TELEPHONY PORTS…
Configure these ports like a normal access port to begin
Add one more command to define the voice VLAN 
Look for the mention of the voice VLAN ID, but no other new facts in the output of show interfeaces (#) switchport command
Look for both the voice and data VLAN IDs in the output of the show interfaces type number trunk command
Do not expect to see the port listed in the list of operational trunks 

Troubleshooting VLANS and VLAN Trunks:

	1. Confirm that all VLANs are both defined and active. 
	2. Check the allowed VLAN lists on both ends of each trunk to ensure that all VLANs intended to be used are included
	3. Check for incorrect trunk configuration settings that result on one switch operating as a trunk, with the neighboring switch not operating as a trunk
	4. Check the native VLAN settings on both ends of the trunk to ensure the settings match 

VLAN lists in the show interfaces trunk command
First list position, showing VLANs allowed, shows the allowed VLANs
Second list position, VLANs allowed and active, shows the allowed/active VLANs
Third position, VLANs in STP forwarding state, shows forwarding state vlans



